# FET and temporary files

`fet-cl` generates a number of files. `fetrunner` only needs some of these files for collecting the results and all these files are deleted after completion of the `fet-cl` run which produced them. `fetrunner` may run `fet-cl` many hundreds, or even thousands, of times, which amounts to a rather large number of files, only some of which are used, and those only transiently. This is unnecessary and potentially avoidable wear on the SSD.

The best solution would probably be for FET to provide its results in another way than writing them out to files, but this may never happen. So for the time being, all files generated by `fetrunner` through `fet-cl` are placed in a temporary folder, which – if possible – should be in a file system in memory, such as a RAM-disk.

Within this temporary folder, each run of `fet-cl` gets its own sub-directory for its files. The name of this sub-directory is derived from the source file by removing the extension. Thus, should multiple instances of `fetrunner` be running simultaneously (not recommended, but perhaps conceivable in an environment with a large number of processor cores) each source file must have a different name.

Linux generally has a volatile file system available at `/dev/shm`, so on Linux this is used by default. There is no built-in in-memory file system in Windows, but various RAM-disk applications are available from third parties. To keep `fetrunner` simple, on Windows the existence of a drive `R:` is tested. If that exists, it is assumed to be an in-memory file system and is used.

From the `fetrunner` command line, these paths can be overridden by the `-tmp /path/to/temporary/folder` option. Within this directory, which must exist, a subdirectory `fetrunner` is created, which is used as the base folder for all the files generated by `fet-cl`. From the GUI, this temporary folder can be selected from the "Settings" tab.

If `fetrunner's` default temporary file system doesn't exist and there is no `-tmp` option, the standard temporary folder for the operating system is used.
