# Structure of the JSON result

The JSON object presents information about the last successful "basis", which constraints were disabled and the placement of the activities. For individual constraints which led to `FET` errors, the `FET` message is recorded. The information is presented in terms of item indexes. That is, each presented item (day, hour, activity, constraint, room) is referred to by an index (starting at 0). In order to correlate these items with those in the `FET` configuration, there is a list of references for each of these item types. These references are objects containing two entries:

TODO: Id and Tag fields ...

**The "Backend" field** is a reference to the corresponding FET node. For an Activity that is the Activity's "Id" field. For a Room, a Day or an Hour that is the item's "Name" field. In FET constraints have no clear identifying tag, so this is handled by using the "Comments" field. A new FET file is built in which the constraint comments are prefixed by some number surrounded by square brackets (e.g. "[23]").  Thus each constraint gets its own identifier tag.

**There is also a "Source" field**. This can be useful when the original FET file is generated by some other software. This field then references the object in that other software. If the source is a FET file, these fields will have the same values as the "Backend" field, except for the constraints (as FET has no unique tags for constraints)

The items in the constraint list have additional fields:

 - "CType" (constraint name), as used in the source, so it may differ from the FET constraint name
 - "Data" depends on constraint type, it can be a simple value or a key/value map
 - "Weight", an integer in the range 0 (ineffective) to 100 ("hard") – with FET source a non-linear conversion function is used

Not every source constraint need have its own reference, some may be attached to a teacher or class, for example. In this case the item referred to would be passed in the Data field, the source-reference being empty. A constraint on a group of activities might place the indexes of these activities as a comma-separated list in the Data field.

Bear in mind that the actual constraints used in the generation are back-end constraints (i.e. FET constraints), even if their "CType" fields refer to the source. There may not be an easy 1:1 correspondence in some cases. Multiple FET constraints might derive from a single source constraint. The reverse case is currently not supported.

### Reporting "impossible" constraints

If any individual constraint was found to cause a FET error report, these reports are recorded in the "ConstraintErrors" map, the key being the constraint index, the value the message. Also constraints whose corresponding run was determined to get stuck at the beginning are reported here. Because this structure is updated independently of the individual runs, it is possible that the odd entry (concerning "stuck" constraints) may be for a constraint which is enabled in the latest "basis". Such an entry can then be ignored.
